Technique #1     The Flooding Smile     Don’t flash an immediate smile when you greet   someone, as though anyone who walked into your line   of sight would be the beneficiary. Instead, look at the   other person’s face for a second. Pause. Soak in their   persona. Then let a big, warm, responsive smile flood   over your face and overflow into your eyes. It will   engulf the recipient like a warm wave. The split-second   delay convinces people your flooding smile is genuine   and only for them.
Technique #2     Sticky Eyes     Pretend your eyes are glued to your conversation     partner’s with sticky warm taffy. Don’t break eye     contact even after he or she has finished speaking.     When you must look away, do it ever so slowly,     reluctantly, stretching the gooey taffy until the tiny     string finally breaks.
Technique #3     Epoxy Eyes     This brazen technique packs a powerful punch. Watch     your target person even when someone else is talking.     No matter who is speaking, keep looking at the man or     woman you want to impact
Technique #4     Hang by Your Teeth     Visualize a circus iron-jaw bit hanging from the frame   of every door you walk through. Take a bite and, with   it firmly between your teeth, let it swoop you to the   peak of the big top. When you hang by your teeth,   every muscle is stretched into perfect posture position.     Now let’s put the whole act into motion. It’s time to turn your   attention outward to your conversation partner
Technique #5     The Big-Baby Pivot     Give everyone you meet The Big-Baby Pivot. The   instant the two of you are introduced, reward your new   acquaintance. Give the warm smile, the total-body   turn, and the undivided attention you would give a tiny   tyke who crawled up to your feet, turned a precious   face up to yours, and beamed a big toothless grin.   Pivoting 100 percent toward the new person shouts “I   think you are very, very special.”
Technique #6     Hello Old Friend     When meeting someone, imagine he or she is an old   friend (an old customer, an old beloved, or someone   else you had great affection for). How sad, the vicissitudes   of life tore you two asunder. But, holy mackerel,   now the party (the meeting, the convention) has   reunited you with your long-lost old friend
Technique #7     Limit the Fidget     Whenever your conversation really counts, let your nose     itch, your ear tingle, or your foot prickle. Do not     fidget, twitch, wiggle, squirm, or scratch. And above     all, keep your paws away from your puss. Hand     motions near your face and all fidgeting can give your     listener the gut feeling you’re fibbing.
Technique #8     Hans’s Horse Sense     Make it a habit to get on a dual track while talking.   Express yourself, but keep a keen eye on how your   listener is reacting to what you’re saying. Then plan   your moves accordingly.
Technique #9     Watch the Scene Before You Make the Scene     Rehearse being the Super Somebody you want to be   ahead of time. SEE yourself walking around with Hang   by Your Teeth posture, shaking hands, smiling the   Flooding Smile, and making Sticky Eyes. HEAR yourself   chatting comfortably with everyone. FEEL the   pleasure of knowing you are in peak form and everyone   is gravitating toward you. VISUALIZE yourself a Super   Somebody. Then it all happens automatically.
Technique #10     Make a Mood Match     Before opening your mouth, take a “voice sample” of   your listener to detect his or her state of mind. Take a   “psychic photograph” of the expression to see if your   listener looks buoyant, bored, or blitzed. If you ever   want to bring people around to your thoughts, you   must match their mood and voice tone, if only for a   moment
Technique #11     Prosaic with Passion     Worried about your first words? Fear not, because 80   percent of your listener’s impression has nothing to do   with your words anyway. Almost anything you say at   first is fine. No matter how prosaic the text, an   empathetic mood, a positive demeanor, and passionate   delivery make you sound exciting.
Technique #12     Always Wear a Whatzit     Whenever you go to a gathering, wear or carry   something unusual to give people who find you the   delightful stranger across the crowded room an excuse   to approach. “Excuse me, I couldn’t help but notice   your . . . what IS that?” 
Technique #13     Whoozat     Whoozat is the most effective, least used (by non-  politicians) meeting-people device ever contrived.   Simply ask the party giver to make the introduction, or   pump for a few facts that you can immediately turn   into icebreakers
Technique #14     Eavesdrop In     No Whatzit? No host for Whoozat? No problem! Just   sidle up behind the swarm of folks you want to infiltrate   and open your ears. Wait for any flimsy excuse   and jump in with “Excuse me, I couldn’t help but   overhear. . . .”     Will they be taken aback? Momentarily.   Will they get over it? Momentarily.   Will you be in the conversation? Absolutely
Technique #15     Never the Naked City     Whenever someone asks you the inevitable, “And where     are you from?” never, ever, unfairly challenge their     powers of imagination with a one-word answer.     Learn some engaging facts about your hometown     that conversational partners can comment on. Then,     when they say something clever in response to your     bait, they think you’re a great conversationalist.
Technique #16     Never the Naked Job     When asked the inevitable “And what do you do,” you   may think “I’m an economist/an educator/an engineer”   is giving enough information to engender good   conversation. However, to one who is not an economist,   educator, or an engineer, you might as well be saying   “I’m a paleontologist/psychoanalyst/pornographer.”
Technique #17     Never the Naked Introduction     When introducing people, don’t throw out an unbaited   hook and stand there grinning like a big clam, leaving   the newlymets to flutter their fins and fish for a topic.   Bait the conversational hook to get them in the swim of   things. Then you’re free to stay or float on to the next   networking opportunity.
Technique #18     Be a Word Detective     Like a good gumshoe, listen to your conversation   partner’s every word for clues to his or her preferred   topic. The evidence is bound to slip out. Then spring   on that subject like a sleuth on to a slip of the tongue.   Like Sherlock Holmes, you have the clue to the subject   that’s hot for the other person.
Technique #19     The Swiveling Spotlight     When you meet someone, imagine a giant revolving   spotlight between you. When you’re talking, the   spotlight is on you. When the new person is speaking,   it’s shining on him or her. If you shine it brightly   enough, the stranger will be blinded to the fact that you   have hardly said a word about yourself. The longer you   keep it shining away from you, the more interesting he   or she finds you.
Technique #20     Parroting     Never be left speechless again. Like a parrot, simply     repeat the last few words your conversation partner     says. That puts the ball right back in his or her court,     and then all you need to do is listen.     Salespeople, why go on a wild goose chase for a customer’s real   objections when it’s so easy to shake them out of the trees with   Parroting
Technique #21     Encore!     The sweetest sound a performer can hear welling up   out of the applause is “Encore! Encore! Let’s hear it   again!” The sweetest sound your conversation partner   can hear from your lips when you’re talking with a   group of people is “Tell them about the time you . . .”     Whenever you’re at a meeting or party with   someone important to you, think of some stories he or   she told you. Choose an appropriate one from their   repertoire that the crowd will enjoy. Then shine the   spotlight by requesting a repeat performance.
Technique #22     Ac-cen-tu-ate the Pos-i-tive     When first meeting someone, lock your closet door and   save your skeletons for later. You and your new good   friend can invite the skeletons out, have a good laugh,   and dance over their bones later in the relationship. But   now’s the time, as the old song says, to “ac-cen-tu-ate   the pos-i-tive and elim-i-nate the neg-a-tive.”
Technique #23     The Latest News . . . Don’t Leave Home   Without It       The last move to make before leaving for the party—   even after you’ve given yourself final approval in the   mirror—is to turn on the radio news or scan your   newspaper. Anything that happened today is good   material. Knowing the big-deal news of the moment is   also a defensive move that rescues you from putting   your foot in your mouth by asking what everybody’s   talking about. Foot-in-mouth is not very tasty in   public, especially when it’s surrounded by egg-on-face. 
Technique #24     What Do You Do—NOT!     A sure sign you’re a Somebody is the conspicuous ab      sence of the question, “What do you do?” (You deter      mine this, of course, but not with those four dirty     words that label you as either a ruthless networker, a     social climber, a gold-digging husband or wife hunter,     or someone who’s never strolled along Easy Street.)
Technique #25     The Nutshell Résumé     Just as job-seeking top managers roll a different written   résumé off their printers for each position they’re   applying for, let a different true story about your   professional life roll off your tongue for each listener.   Before responding to “What do you do?” ask yourself,   “What possible interest could this person have in my   answer? Could he refer business to me? Buy from me?   Hire me? Marry my sister? Become my buddy?”     Wherever you go, pack a nutshell about your own   life to work into your communications bag of tricks
Technique #26     Your Personal Thesaurus     Look up some common words you use every day in the   thesaurus. Then, like slipping your feet into a new pair   of shoes, slip your tongue into a few new words to see   how they fit. If you like them, start making permanent   replacements.     Remember, only fifty words makes the difference   between a rich, creative vocabulary and an average,   middle-of-the-road one. Substitute a word a day for   two months and you’ll be in the verbally elite.
Technique #27     Kill the Quick “Me, Too!”     Whenever you have something in common with   someone, the longer you wait to reveal it, the more   moved (and impressed) he or she will be. You emerge as   a confident big cat, not a lonely little stray, hungry for   quick connection with a stranger.     P.S.: Don’t wait too long to reveal your shared   interest or it will seem like you’re being tricky.
Technique #28     Comm-YOU-nication     Start every appropriate sentence with you. It immediately   grabs your listener’s attention. It gets a more   positive response because it pushes the pride button   and saves them having to translate it into “me” terms.     When you sprinkle you as liberally as salt and   pepper throughout your conversation, your listeners   find it an irresistible spice.
Technique #29     The Exclusive Smile     If you flash everybody the same smile, like a Confederate   dollar, it loses value. When meeting groups of   people, grace each with a distinct smile. Let your smiles   grow out of the beauty big players find in each new   face.     If one person in a group is more important to you   than the others, reserve an especially big, flooding smile   just for him or her.     In Defense of the Quickie 
Technique #30     Don’t Touch a Cliché with a Ten-Foot Pole     Be on guard. Don’t use any clichés when chatting with   big winners. Don’t even touch one with a ten-foot pole.   Never? Not even when hell freezes over? Not unless you   want to sound dumb as a doorknob.     Instead of coughing up a cliché, roll your own   clever phrases by using the next technique
Technique #31     Use Jawsmith’s Jive     Whether you’re standing behind a podium facing   thousands or behind the barbecue grill facing your   family, you’ll move, amuse, and motivate with the   same skills.       Read speakers’ books to cull quotations, pull pearls   of wisdom, and get gems to tickle their funny bones.   Find a few bon mots to let casually slide off your   tongue on chosen occasions. If you want to be notable,   dream up a crazy quotable.     Make ’em rhyme, make ’em clever, or make ’em   funny. Above all, make ’em relevan
Technique #32     Call a Spade a Spade     Don’t hide behind euphemisms. Call a spade a spade.   That doesn’t mean big cats use tasteless four-letter   words when perfectly decent five- and six-letter ones   exist. They’ve simply learned the King’s English, and   they speak it.
Technique #33     Trash the Teasing     A dead giveaway of a little cat is his or her proclivity to   tease. An innocent joke at someone else’s expense may   get you a cheap laugh. Nevertheless, the big cats will   have the last one. Because you’ll bang your head against   the glass ceiling they construct to keep little cats from   stepping on their paws.     Never, ever, make a joke at anyone else’s expense.   You’ll wind up paying for it, dearly
Technique #34     It’s the Receiver’s Ball     A football player wouldn’t last two beats of the time   clock if he made blind passes. A pro throws the ball   with the receiver always in mind.     Before throwing out any news, keep your receiver in   mind. Then deliver it with a smile, a sigh, or a sob. Not   according to how you feel about the news, but how the   receiver will take it.
Technique #35     The Broken Record     Whenever someone persists in questioning you on an   unwelcome subject, simply repeat your original   response. Use precisely the same words in precisely the   same tone of voice. Hearing it again usually quiets   them down. If your rude interrogator hangs on like a   leech, your next repetition never fails to flick them off.
Technique #36     Big Shots Don’t Slobber     People who are VIPs in their own right don’t slobber   over celebrities. When you are chatting with one, don’t   compliment her work, simply say how much pleasure or   insight it’s given you. If you do single out any one of   the star’s accomplishments, make sure it’s a recent one,   not a memory that’s getting yellow in her scrapbook.     If the queen bee has a drone sitting with her, find a   way to involve him in the conversation
Technique #37     Never the Naked Thank You     Never let the phrase “thank you” stand alone. From A   to Z, always follow it with for: from “Thank you for   asking” to “Thank you for zipping me up.”     Thank you for reading this section of How to Talk to Anyone!   Now let us move on to another conversation challenge, how to talk   knowledgeably with everyone—from groups of accountants to   Zen Buddhists—no matter how little you might have in common
Technique #38     Scramble Therapy     Once a month, scramble your life. Do something you’d     never dream of doing. Participate in a sport, go to an     exhibition, hear a lecture on something totally out of     your experience. You get 80 percent of the right lingo     and insider questions from just one exposure.     Think about it! Suppose at a dinner party, the table conversation   turns to scuba diving. If you, too, had done your one-timeonly   dive, you’d ask your diving dinner companion if he likes night   diving or whether he prefers diving on wrecks or reefs.
Technique #39     Learn a Little Jobbledygook     Big winners speak Jobbledygook as a second language.   What is Jobbledygook? It’s the language of other   professions.     Why speak it? It makes you sound like an insider.     How do you learn it? You’ll find no Jobbledygook   cassettes in the language section of your bookstore, but   the lingo is easy to pick up. Simply ask a friend who   speaks the lingo of the crowd you’ll be with to teach   you a few opening questions. The words are few and   the rewards are manifold.
Technique #40     Baring Their Hot Button     Before jumping blindly into a bevy of bookbinders or a     drove of dentists, find out what the hot issues are in     their fields. Every industry has burning concerns the     outside world knows little about. Ask your informant to     bare the industry buzz. Then, to heat the conversation     up, push those buttons.     Back to the art show you’re about to attend. You can’t let Sally   hang up yet. She’s given you the two best opening questions for artists.
Technique #41     Read Their Rags     Is your next big client a golfer, runner, swimmer, surfer,   or skier? Are you attending a social function filled with   accountants or Zen Buddhists—or anything in between?   There are untold thousands of monthly magazines   serving every imaginable interest. You can dish up more   information than you’ll ever need to sound like an   insider with anyone just by reading the rags that serve   their racket. (Have you read your latest copy of   Zoonooz yet?
Technique #42     Clear “Customs”     Before putting one toe on foreign soil, get a book on   dos and taboos around the world. Before you shake   hands, give a gift, make gestures, or even compliment   anyone’s possessions, check it out. Your gaffe could gum   up your entire gig.
Technique #43     Bluffing for Bargains     The haggling skills used in ancient Arab markets are   alive and well in contemporary America for big-ticket   items. Your price is much lower when you know how   to deal.     Before every big purchase, find several vendors—a   few to learn from and one to buy from. Armed with a   few words of industryese, you’re ready to head for the   store where you’re going to buy
Technique #44     Be a Copyclass     Watch people. Look at the way they move. Small   movements? Big movements? Fast? Slow? Jerky? Fluid?   Old? Young? Classy? Trashy?     Pretend the person you are talking to is your dance   instructor. Is he a jazzy mover? Is she a balletic mover?   Watch his or her body, then imitate the style of   movement. That makes your conversation partner   subliminally real comfy with you.
Technique #45     Echoing     Echoing is a simple linguistic technique that packs a   powerful wallop. Listen to the speaker’s arbitrary choice   of nouns, verbs, prepositions, adjectives—and echo   them back. Hearing their words come out of your   mouth creates subliminal rapport. It makes them feel   you share their values, their attitudes, their interests,   their experiences.     Echoing Is Politically Correct Insurance
Technique #46     Potent Imaging     Does your customer have a garden? Talk about “sowing   the seeds for success.” Does your boss own a boat? Tell   him or her about a concept that will “hold water” or   “stay afloat.” Maybe he is a private pilot? Talk about a   concept really “taking off.” She plays tennis? Tell her it   really hits the “sweet spot.”     Evoke your listener’s interests or lifestyle and weave   images around it.
Technique #47     Employ Empathizers     Don’t be an unconscious ummer. Vocalize complete   sentences to show your understanding. Dust your   dialogue with phrases like “I see what you mean.”   Sprinkle it with sentimental sparklers like “That’s a   lovely thing to say.” Your empathy impresses your   listeners and encourages them to continue
Technique #48     Anatomically Correct Empathizers     What part of their anatomy are your associates talking   through? Their eyes? Their ears? Their gut?     For visual people, use visual empathizers to make   them think you see the world the way they do. For   auditory folks, use auditory empathizers to make them   think you hear them loud and clear. For kinesthetic   types, use kinesthetic empathizers to make them think   you feel the same way they do.     What about the other two senses, taste and smell? Well, I’ve   never run up against any gustatory or olfactory types. But you   could always compliment a chef by saying, “That’s a delicious   idea.” And if you are talking to your dog (olfactory, of course),   tell him “The whole idea stinks.”
Technique #49     The Premature WE       Create the sensation of intimacy with someone even if   you’ve met just moments before. Scramble the signals   in their psyche by skipping conversational levels one   and two and cutting right to levels three and four.   Elicit intimate feelings by using the magic words we,   us, and our
Technique #50     Instant History     When you meet a stranger you’d like to make less a   stranger, search for some special moment you shared   during your first encounter. Then find a few words that   reprieve the laugh, the warm smile, the good feelings   the two of you felt. Now, just like old friends, you have   a history together, an Instant History.     With anyone you’d like to make part of your   personal or professional future, look for special   moments together. Then make them a refrain.
Technique #51     Grapevine Glory     A compliment one hears is never as exciting as the one   he overhears. A priceless way to praise is not by   telephone, not by telegraph, but by tell-a-friend. This   way you escape possible suspicion that you are an   apple-polishing, bootlicking, egg-sucking, back-  scratching sycophant trying to win brownie points. You   also leave recipients with the happy fantasy that you are   telling the whole world about their greatness
Technique #52     Carrier Pigeon Kudos     People immediately grow a beak and metamorphosize   themselves into carrier pigeons when there’s bad news.   (It’s called gossip.) Instead, become a carrier of good   news and kudos. Whenever you hear something   complimentary about someone, fly to them with the   compliment. Your fans may not posthumously stuff   you and put you on display in a museum like Stumpy   Joe. But everyone loves the carrier pigeon of kind   thoughts.     Carry More Cargo than Compliments
Technique #53     Implied Magnificence     Throw a few comments into your conversation that   presuppose something positive about the person you’re   talking with. But be careful. Don’t blow it like the wellintentioned   maintenance man. Or the southern boy   who, at the prom, thought he was flattering his date   when he told her, “Gosh, Mary Lou, for a fat gal you   dance real good.”
Technique #54     Accidental Adulation     Become an undercover complimenter. Stealthily sneak     praise into the parenthetical part of your sentence.     Just don’t try to quiz anyone later on your main     point. The joyful jolt of your accidental adulation     strikes them temporarily deaf to anything that follows.
Technique #55     Killer Compliment     Whenever you are talking with a stranger you’d like to     make part of your professional or personal future, search     for one attractive, specific, and unique quality he or she     has.     At the end of the conversation, look the individual     right in the eye. Say his or her name and proceed to     curl all ten toes with the Killer Compliment.     Rule #1: Deliver your Killer Compliment to the recipient   in private. If you are standing with a group of four or five   people and you praise one woman for being fit, every other woman   feels like a barrel of lard. If you tell one man he has wonderful   carriage, every other feels like a hunchback. You also make the   blushing recipient uncomfortable.     Rule #2: Make your Killer Compliment credible. For   example, I’m tone-deaf. If I’m forced to sing even a simple song   like “Happy Birthday,” I sound like a sick pig. If anyone in earshot   were foolish enough to tell me they liked my voice, I’d know it   was hogwash.     Rule #3: Confer only one Killer Compliment per half   year on each recipient. Otherwise you come across as insincere,   groveling, obsequious, pandering, and a thoroughly manipulative   person. Not cool.     With careful aim, the Killer Compliment captures everyone.   It works best, however, when you use it judiciously on new   acquaintances. If you want to praise friends every day, employ the   next technique
Technique #56     Little Strokes     Don’t make your colleagues, your friends, your loved     ones look at you and silently say, “Haven’t I been pretty     good today?” Let them know how much you appreciate     them by caressing them with verbal Little Strokes like     “Nice job!” “Well done!” “Cool!”     Little Things Mean a Lot     Little Strokes are indeed, little. But as every woman knows, they   mean a lot.
Technique #57     The Knee-Jerk “Wow!”     Quick as a blink, you must praise people the moment     they a finish a feat. In a wink, like a knee-jerk reaction     say, “You were terrific!”     Don’t worry that they won’t believe you. The     euphoria of the moment has a strangely numbing effect     on the achiever’s objective judgment.     But What If They Really Bombed?     “Are you asking me to lie?” you ask. Yes. Absolutely, positively,   resoundingly, YES.
Technique #58     Boomeranging     Just as a boomerang flies right back to the thrower, let     compliments boomerang right back to the giver. Like     the French, quickly murmur something that expresses     “That’s very kind of you.”
Technique #59     The Tombstone Game     Ask the important people in your life what they would   like engraved on their tombstone. Chisel it into your   memory but don’t mention it again. Then, when the   moment is right to say “I appreciate you” or “I love   you,” fill the blanks with the very words they gave you   weeks earlier
Technique #60     Talking Gestures     Think of yourself as the star of a personal radio drama   every time you pick up the phone. If you want to come   across as engaging as you are, you must turn your   smiles into sound, your nods into noise, and all your   gestures into something your listener can hear. You   must replace your gestures with talk. Then punch up   the whole act 30 percent
Technique #61     Name Shower     People perk up when they hear their own name. Use it   more often on the phone than you would in person to   keep their attention. Your caller’s name re-creates the   eye contact, the caress, you might give in person.     Saying someone’s name repeatedly when face-to-face   sounds pandering. But because there is physical distance   between you on the phone—sometimes you’re a continent   apart—you can spray your conversation with it
Technique #62     “Oh Wow, It’s You!”     Don’t answer the phone with an “I’m just sooo happy   all the time” attitude. Answer warmly, crisply, and   professionally. Then, after you hear who is calling, let a   huge smile of happiness engulf your entire face and   spill over into your voice. You make your caller feel as   though your giant warm fuzzy smile is reserved for him   or her.
Technique #63     The Sneaky Screen     If you must screen your calls, instruct your staff to first   say cheerfully, “Oh yes, I’ll put you right through. May   I tell her who’s calling?” If the party has already   identified himself, it’s “Oh of course, Mr. Whoozit. I’ll   put you right through.”     When the secretary comes back with the bad news   that Mr. or Ms. Bigwig is unavailable, callers don’t take   it personally and never feel screened. They fall for it   every time, just like I did. 
Technique #64     Salute the Spouse     Whenever you are calling someone’s home, always identify     and greet the person who answers. Whenever you call     someone’s office more than once or twice, make friends     with the secretary. Anybody who is close enough to answer     the phone is close enough to sway the VIP’s opinion of you.     A surprising number of Big Cat spouses—and secretaries—   have deep claws into important business decisions. 
Technique #65     What Color Is Your Time?     No matter how urgent you think your call, always   begin by asking the person about timing. Either use the   What Color Is Your Time? device or simply ask, “Is this   a convenient time for you to talk?” When you ask   about timing first, you’ll never smash your footprints   right in the middle of your telephone partner’s sands of   time.
Technique #66     Constantly Changing Outgoing Message     If you want to be perceived as conscientious and   reliable, leave a short, professional, and friendly   greeting as your outgoing message. No music. No jokes.   No inspirational messages. No boasts, bells, or whistles.   And here’s the secret: change it every day. Your message   doesn’t have to be flawless. A little cough or stammer   gives a lovely unpretentious reality to your message.
Technique #67     Your Ten-Second Audition     While dialing, clear your throat. If an answering     machine picks up, pretend the beep is a big Broadway     producer saying “Nexxxt.” Now you’re on. This is Your     Ten-Second Audition to prove you are worthy of a     quick callback. 
Technique #68     The Ho-Hum Caper     Instead of using your party’s name, casually let the     pronoun he or she roll off your tongue. Forget “Uh,     may I speak to Ms. Bigshot please?” Just announce,     “Hi, Bob Smith here, is she in?” Tossing the familiar     she off your tongue signals to the secretary that you and     her boss are old buddies
Technique #69     “I Hear Your Other Line”     When you hear a phone in the background, stop   speaking—in midsentence, if necessary—and say “I   hear your other line,” (or your dog barking, your baby   crying, your spouse calling you). Ask whether she has   to attend to it. Whether she does or not, she’ll know   you’re a top communicator for asking.     And don’t forget foreign holidays. 
Technique #70     Instant Replay     Record all your business conversations and listen to     them again. The second or third time, you pick up on     significant subtleties you missed the first time. It’s like     football fans who often don’t know if there was a     fumble until they see it all over again in Instant Replay.     Forget What They Said, Hear What   They Meant
Technique #72     Rubberneck the Room     When you arrive at the gathering, stop dramatically in   the doorway. Then s-l-o-w-l-y survey the situation. Let   your eyes travel back and forth like a SWAT team   ready in a heartbeat to wipe out anything that moves.     In tandem with Rubberneck the Room, try using the following   technique.
Technique #73     Be the Chooser, Not the Choosee     The lifelong friend, the love of your life, or the business   contact who will transform your future may not be at   the party. However, someday, somewhere, he or she will   be. Make every party a rehearsal for the big event. 
Technique #74     Come-Hither Hands     Be a human magnet, not a human repellent. When   standing at a gathering, arrange your body in an open   position—especially your arms and hands. People   instinctively gravitate toward open palms and wrists   seductively arranged in the “come hither” position
Technique #75     Tracking     Like an air-traffic controller, track the tiniest details of   your conversation partners’ lives. Refer to them in your   conversation like a major news story. It creates a powerful   sense of intimacy.     When you invoke the last major or minor event in   anyone’s life, it confirms the deep conviction that he or   she is an old-style hero around whom the world   revolves. And people love you for recognizing their   stardom
Technique #77     Eyeball Selling     The human body is a twenty-four-hour broadcasting   station that transmits “You thrill me.” “You bore me.”   “I love that aspect of your product.” “That one puts my   feet to sleep.”     Set the hidden cameras behind your eyeballs to pick   up on all your customers’ and friends’ signals. Then   plan your pitch and your pace accordingly.
Technique #78     See No Bloopers, Hear No Bloopers     Cool communicators allow their friends, associates,   acquaintances, and loved ones the pleasurable myth of   being above commonplace bloopers and embarrassing   biological functions. They simply don’t notice their   comrades’ minor spills, slips, fumbles, and faux pas
Technique #79     Lend a Helping Tongue     Whenever someone’s story is aborted, let the interruption   play itself out. Give everyone time to dote on the   little darling, give their dinner order, or pick up the   jagged pieces of china.     Then, when the group reassembles, simply say to the   person who suffered story-interruptus, “Now please get   back to your story.” Or better yet, remember where they   were and then ask, “So what happened after the . . .”   (and fill in the last few words)
Technique #80     Bare the Buried WIIFM (and WIIFY)     Whenever you suggest a meeting or ask a favor, divulge     the respective benefits. Reveal what’s in it for you and     what’s in it for the other person—even if it’s zip. If any     hidden agenda comes up later, you get labeled a sly fox.
Technique #81     Let ’Em Savor the Favor     Whenever a friend agrees to a favor, allow your   generous buddy time to relish the joy of his or her   beneficence before you make them pay the piper.       How long? At least twenty-four hours.     One might think Evans was unfair judging Sonny harshly just   because he didn’t let her savor the favor. It runs deeper than that.
Technique #82     Tit for (Wait . . . Wait) Tat     When you do someone a favor and it’s obvious that “he   owes you one,” wait a suitable amount of time before   asking him to “pay.” Let him enjoy the fact (or fiction)   that you did it out of friendship. Don’t call in your tit   for their tat too swiftly
Technique #83     Parties Are for Pratter     There are three sacred safe havens in the human jungle   where even the toughest tiger knows he must not   attack. The first of these is parties.     Parties are for pleasantries and good fellowship, not   for confrontations. Big players, even when standing   next to their enemies at the buffet table, smile and nod.   They leave tough talk for tougher settings.
Technique #84     Dinner’s for Dining     The most guarded safe haven respected by big winners   is the dining table. Breaking bread together is a time   when they bring up no unpleasant matters. While   eating, they know it’s OK to brainstorm and discuss the   positive side of the business: their dreams, their desires,   their designs. They can free associate and come up with   new ideas. But no tough business.     
Technique #85     Chance Encounters Are for Chitchat     If you’re selling, negotiating, or in any sensitive   communication with someone, do NOT capitalize on a   chance meeting. Keep the melody of your mistaken   meeting sweet and light. Otherwise, it could turn into   your swan song with Big Winner.
Technique #86     Empty Their Tanks     If you need information, let people have their entire say     first. Wait patiently until their needle is on empty and     the last drop drips out and splashes on the cement. It’s     the only way to be sure their tank is empty enough of     their own inner noise to start receiving your ideas
Technique #87     Echo the Emo     Facts speak. Emotions shout. Whenever you need facts   from people about an emotional situation, let them   emote. Hear their facts but empathize like mad with   their emotions. Smearing on the emo is often the only   way to calm their emotional storm
Technique #88     My Goof, Your Gain     Whenever you make a boner, make sure your victim   benefits. It’s not enough to correct your mistake. Ask   yourself, “What could I do for this suffering soul so he   or she will be delighted I made the flub?” Then do it,   fast! In that way, your goof will become your gain.
Technique #89     Leave an Escape Hatch     Whenever you catch someone lying, filching, exaggerating,   distorting, or deceiving, don’t confront the dirty   duck directly. Unless it is your responsibility to catch or   correct the culprit—or unless you are saving other   innocent victims by doing so—let the transgressor out   of your trap with his tricky puss in one piece. Then   resolve never to gaze upon it again
Technique #91     Lead the Listeners     No matter how prominent the big cat behind the   podium is, crouched inside is a little scaredy-cat who is   anxious about the crowd’s acceptance.     Big winners recognize you’re a fellow big winner   when they see you leading their listeners in a positive   reaction. Be the first to applaud or publicly commend   the man or woman you agree with (or want favors   from)
Technique #92     The Great Scorecard in the Sky     Any two people have an invisible scorecard hovering     above their heads. The numbers continually fluctuate,     but one rule remains: player with lower score pays     deference to player with higher score. The penalty for     not keeping your eye on The Great Scorecard in the     Sky is to be thrown out of the game. 
